---
title: SUMMER FRUITS SHOULD NOT BE TOO MUCH
subtitle:
layout: post
modal-id: 1
date: 2016-07-04
img: dreams.png
thumbnail: dreams-thumbnail.png
alt: image-alt
project-date: 2016-07-04
client: Start Bootstrap
category: news
description: Apple sweet and sour taste, rich nutrition, edible is convenient, can treat many diseases, it was widely loved. But if eating too much or eating apple may also bring many disadvantages.

---
# SUMMER FRUITS SHOULD NOT BE TOO MUCH #

**APPLE**  
Apple sweet and sour taste, rich nutrition, edible is convenient, can treat many diseases, it was widely loved. But if eating too much or eating apple may also bring many disadvantages. This is because, the apple contains a lot of sugar and potassium, each hectogram apple contains 100 milligrams of potassium, and only 14 mg of sodium, potassium and sodium ratio is too wide, eating too much is bad for the heart, kidney health. Especially for patients with coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, nephritis, diabetes patients increase the burden of heart and kidney, is not conducive to health. Therefore, apple is unfavorable and overmuch quantity edible, general consumption for the daily 1-2 advisable.

**WATERMELON**   
Watermelon gan cool, heat thirst, breadth of mind irritated heat, can be appropriate to eat some watermelon with good heat. But eating is not conducive to health. This is because, from the perspective of the theory of traditional Chinese medicine, cold watermelon, eating too much easy to cause the stomach cold, belly full abdominal distention, and a decrease gastrointestinal digestion adverse symptoms. In addition, watermelon contains extremely rich in sugar, eat watermelon, will consume large amounts of sugar, excess sugar substances become fat accumulate in the body, make body fluids acid environment, affect human body health, but also affects a balanced diet, reduce the intake of protein, minerals, that cause nutritional imbalance. Therefore, should not be watermelon to eat more.

**HAWTHORN**   
Disappear of hawthorn sour and sweet and tasty, has the special function of the product, increase appetite, help digestion is one of the best fruits, but eating too much is harmful. Hawthorn hurts too much gas, because hawthorn contain plenty of vitamin C and fruit acid composition. From the point of medicinal food, hawthorn taste sour food. In the ancient medical records: "hawthorn broken gas, unfavorable feed more. Eating take gas, loss of teeth." Hawthorn is the product of broken gas to stagnant, usually the spleen and stomach weak or are taking ginseng mend angry medicine person is unfavorable edible. Such as children at the right time, often a large number of edible, will have an unfavorable influence on the growth of teeth, but also affect appetite. Therefore, hawthorn should not eat too much.

**BANANA**  
Bananas are sweet waxy delicious fruit, so some people a lot of eating bananas. Little imagine, so health is very adverse to the body. Bananas contain more magnesium, potassium and other elements, although these minerals are necessary to human body health but if in a short time, eating too much at once, it will cause a sharp increase in the content of magnesium, potassium in the blood caused by potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium and other elements of the imbalance, cause harm to health. In addition, eat more bananas will be caused by gastric acid secretion greatly reduce gastrointestinal dysfunction and mood swings. Therefore, the banana unfavorable excessive edible.
